---
layout:     post
title:      "Rich feature hierarchies for accurate object detection and semantic segmentation- Tech report (v5)"
subtitle:   Reading and Digest
date:       2019-10-26
author:     Mary Li
header-img: img/2019-10-15-bg.jpeg
catalog: true
tags: 
    -  deep learning
    -  paper digest 
---

_This is a paper digest from the classic paper for RCNN by [1]._

## 1. Excerpt

### Introduction

_This paper is the first to show that a CNN can lead to dramatically higher object detection performance on PASCAL VOC as compared
to systems based on simpler HOG-like features._<br>
<br>
_Instead, we solve the CNN localization problem by operating within the “recognition using regions” paradigm [21],
which has been successful for both object detection and semantic segmentation. At test time, our method generates around 2000 category-independent region proposals for
the input image, extracts a fixed-length feature vector from each proposal using a CNN, and then classifies each region with category-specific linear SVMs. We use a simple tech-
nique (affine image warping) to compute a fixed-size CNN input from each region proposal, regardless of the region’s shape._<br>
<br>
_A second challenge faced in detection is that labeled data is scarce and the amount currently available is insufficient for training a large CNN. The conventional solution to this problem is to use unsupervised pre-training, 
followed by supervised fine-tuning (e.g., [35]). The second principle contribution of this paper is to show that supervised pre-training on a large auxiliary dataset (ILSVRC), followed by domain-specific fine-tuning on a small dataset (PASCAL), is an
effective paradigm for learning high-capacity CNNs when data is scarce._<br>

### Object detection with R-CNN

#### Region proposal
_Feature extraction： Features are computed by forward propagating a mean-subtracted 227 × 227 RGB image through five convolutional layers and two fully connected layers._<br>
<br>
#### Training
_Supervised pre-training. We discriminatively pre-trained the CNN on a large auxiliary dataset._<br>
_Domain-specific fine-tuning. To adapt our CNN to the new task (detection) and the new domain (warped proposal windows), we continue stochastic gradient descent (SGD)
training of the CNN parameters using only warped region proposals. Aside from replacing the CNN’s ImageNet-specific 1000-way classification layer with a randomly initialized (N + 1)-way classification layer (where N is the
number of object classes, plus 1 for background), the CNN architecture is unchanged._<br>
_ We treat all region proposals with ≥ 0.5 IoU overlap with a ground-truth box as positives for that box’s class and the rest as negatives. We start SGD at
a learning rate of 0.001 (1/10th of the initial pre-training rate), which allows fine-tuning to make progress while not clobbering the initialization. In each SGD iteration, we uni-
formly sample 32 positive windows (over all classes) and 96 background windows to construct a mini-batch of size 128. We bias the sampling towards positive windows be-
cause they are extremely rare compared to background._<br>
_Object category classifiers. (SVM?) We resolve this issue with an IoU overlap threshold, below which regions are defined as negatives. The overlap threshold, 0.3,
was selected by a grid search over {0, 0.1, . . . , 0.5} on a validation set. Once features are extracted and training labels are applied, we optimize one linear SVM per class._<br>
